So what we wanna do next is we wanna
add in global styles to our layout.
And these are styles that are gonna
be shared across the entire app.
This is gonna be how we set the colors,
how we set the fonts,
how we set basic shared
typography across the site, and
a few components that
will be used everywhere.
And the way that we do that is we
are going to use the single-file component
approach in Astro.
And this as a concept
is not unique to Astro,
it's borrowed from frameworks like Vue,
Svelte,
probably additional frameworks that
I'm not thinking of right now.
And it allows us to declare the styles
not as part of the template, but
alongside the template.
And then Astro can do optimization and
in-lining of those styles to give us a
little more flexibility in how this works
without having to understand
the intricacies of a CSS processor.
Or if we're using Sass or Tailwind or
something like that, the way that those
all function is kind of not a part of
the thing that you want to care about.
You just kinda wanna have some
styles show up on your page.
So the way that they do
that is we're gonna set up
global styles by marking it
with this is:global attribute.
And that tells Astro not to
change the class names so
that they are in fact global.
And the reason that that's important is
that by default, Astro is gonna scope,
styles to the component that they're in.
And this is really, really powerful
because it basically eliminates
the need for a lot of the complex
CSS setup that we've had in the past
with things like CSS and
JS, with Tailwind.
And now I'm gonna add a big caveat to
all this, which is that I love CSS.
Writing CSS is one of my
favorite things to do.
It's, l think, the most joyful part
of building for the web to me,
is writing CSS.
So with that being said,
I don't really love abstractions over CSS
because it makes it harder for
me to do that because I love writing CSS.
I know that not everybody does, and I know
that CSS is very frustrating for people.
So I will say, if you want to use
Tailwind, there is a built-in plugin.
You can just add it to Astro and
you're off to the races.
If you wanna bring in your favorite CSS
and JS library, you can do that as well,
there's no restrictions on this stuff.
What I like is that by default,
this stuff is just built so
that you write plain old CSS, and
you get the benefits of scoped styles, and
avoiding the global
namespace collisions and
the challenges that kind of, I think,
give CSS its challenging reputation.
Those just get solved in a way that don't
require you to actually change the way you
write styles.
So inside of this, we've got up here in
the workshop-assets, some style sheets,
and we've got the default-global, and
that's the first one we're gonna grab.
And so I'm going to take the contents
of that and paste them in here.
And then let's see,
do we wanna look at this step by step?
Why not?
Let's do it.
So head out here, and okay, so
now we're starting to get some styles.
Here's some typography.
We can see that that it's not
using the serif font anymore.
It's using the system default,
sans serif font.
We've pulled in our Google font,
this this kind of bubbly, headline font.
But we're not quite there yet,
we still got a ways to go.
So next, what we're gonna do is add
our scope styles that are just for
the layout itself.
And the way that those work
is nearly identical to
the way that the global styles work.
We just don't add that is:global.
So I can add style, and save.
And then if I close this out, okay,
so let's take a look at this.
I'm gonna resize this.
Now let's take a look under the hood
at how this is actually working.
So on something like the header, which
is a unique component of the layout and
doesn't need to be accessed anywhere else,
we get these classes that
are unique to Astro itself.
Where it's saying, you can look at
the style, the actual targeting over here,
and it's saying, give me the header
where it's this Astro class.
And this is that scoping, because you'll
see that all of these have the same
Astro class, and we just append that
where on it to give us the scope styles.
And this allows us to kind of, we can
have really generic class names, box,
container, wrapper, whatever we wanna use.
And we don't have to worry if we
use wrapper in two components,
about those conflicting with each other,
because they'll be scoped to just
the component they're used in.
Now, on something that's more global,
like a header,
we will see that these don't get scoped.
So it's just saying if it's any heading,
apply the Google font, right?
So this is the global versus the scoping,
and
you can make a choice as is necessary for
how you wanna write your code.
There are no hard and fast rules here.
This is just whatever works best for
you and your team.
And again,
if you don't wanna use scope styles,
you wanna write something like Tailwind,
you can do that as well.
This is just a preference of mine, and
we're gonna power on ahead with that.
Next up, what I wanna do is add some
navigation, because right now the only way
to get to that About page is to
go up here and manually type.
And again, you can see we've got
the layout is showing up for us here.
We've got our heading fonts are working,
the typography looks a little bit better,
it looks more, kind of what we intended,
not the sans serif default styles.
But I want those to be linked together.
So let's get into a little bit
more with the frontmatter.
So in my heading here, or in my default,
we're gonna add frontmatter
to this component.
And I'm gonna set up a new const called
navItems, and that's going to be an array.
Boy!
We're gonna add a few things in here.
I'll get the gut set up and
then explain what I'm doing.
So we've got an array of navItems, and
then each navItem is an object with
two properties, a path and a label.
So I'm going to copy this and
we're gonna put three navItems in.
This one will be blog, and
this one will be about.
Okay, so now that I've saved these,
what I can do next is I can go in and
actually use these in my layout.
And this is where we're gonna start to see
the power of using an Astro component over
just plain old HTML, because it lets us do
some templating and stuff that would have
traditionally required us to either reach
for something like Handlebars or Mustache.
This is what this is kind
of reminiscent of, or
we'd have to move to a JSX
component style rendered thing.
And this is one of those instances where I
think that Astro has found a nice balance.
So in where the nav goes,
I'm going to add a nav component,
and inside of that,
I'm going to navItems.map.
And for each one of those,
we'll get a navItem, and, oops,
I'm gonna return a href(item.path).
We've got autocomplete there
because it's in the same file.
And then we can do an item.label.
And it seems to have forgotten that
label exists, but that's okay.
All right, let me make this bigger so
everybody can see.
So one thing to call out is
while we've got this setup here,
this looks very familiar
if you've used JSX before,
you may have written something
almost identical to this,
but there's one important call-out,
which is, I didn't have to key this.
I don't have to add a key prop for
keeping track of it or anything,
because Astro is not
setting up a virtual DOM.
And so we don't need that extra overhead
of keeping track of these components
in some way,
Astro is just gonna render them out.
So this is sort of a blend of JSX and
the way React does things, and
something like Handlebars or Mustache,
and the way that they do things.
Once we've saved this,
we've already added the styles.
So we can see that we've got our Shop,
Blog, and About up in the nav here.
And if I click through to the homepage,
we get to the homepage.
About, we get to the about.
And if I try to go to one of these
other pages, we get a 404, and
that's to be expected.
We'll talk a little bit about how to
customize that 404 page here in a moment.
And we'll also be
building out the shop and
the blog pages throughout
the rest of the workshop.